# LlamaCat
LlamaCat is a silly piece of code complete with GUI for creating gibberish in the style of a specific piece of work using a Markov Chain. 

The code requires python 2.7, numpy, Tkinter, random, and pickle. You will also need the provided image 'LlamaCat.gif' in the local directory.

The user will be prompted to either load or read a library. Loading requires a pickle file (.pkl) formatted and created from a previous run of the code. 
The other option is to read in a text file. Because text files of literature often have junk at the beginning worth ignoring for our purposes (like tables of contents, copyright/licensing information, and/or forwards written in a different style from the rest of the work) an integer can be entered into the field to the left of the 'Read' button and the first that many lines of the text file will be ignored. When 'Read' is clicked the user will be prompted to select a text file (.txt). The code will then read through the text generating a list of unique words. “Word” here is used loosely. Commas, periods, question marks, exclamation points, dashes, semi-colons, and quotation marks will all be counted as their own words and any word containing them (usually the dash) will be split into multiple words. The list of unique words will also be case sensitive, so if a word appears in the text as both capitalized and non-capitalized, then both will be treated as different words. Once the list of words has been created, a matrix of probabilities will be created which is NxN in size (if there are N entries in the words list). Each entry is a probability that the word associated with that column will follow the word associated with the row.

Be warned that both loading and reading can take some time. If the work used to create it is long, there is a lot of data stored in the probability matrix. In fact, for long works, loading can sometimes often take longer than just reading in the text anew.

For example, suppose I got Moby Dick from Project Gutenberg (https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/2701, you want the plain text). The story actually begins on line 974, so I would enter 973 into the 'Lines to skip' field, click run, and when prompted select the text file for Moby Dick. Just to give an idea of the time involved, for this work my computer takes about 13 seconds to generate the words list, then finishes reading after about 40 seconds and it identifies 14457 unique words (meaning that the probability matrix has a size of 14457 x 14457). 
We haven't talked about saving yet, but since we are going over timing with Moby Dick as an example,  saving in this case took my setup just over 8 minutes. If I then close the program and reopen to load that saved file instead of rereading, it takes just over 4 minutes to load.

Once the library is loaded, whether by reading or loading, there will be a new window with some options. In the upper left, will be a statement that the library has been loaded, including the name of the library (the file name from either the .txt or .pkl file used to create it) and the number of words identified. This is the window used to generate the gibberish string.

The length of the statement will need to be specified. This is done by entering an integer into the field labeled as 'Message length'. This integer will be the number of words to include in the message (keep in mind that this number includes punctuation marks, so the number of actual words might be a few lower than specified). The other piece of information needed is a seed word. Because of the way that the Markov chain works, the first word of the statement needs to be specified. There are 2 choices for how to do this. A word can be entered into the field next to the 'Generate' button and (if the word appears in the word list) then that will be used as the seed. If, however, the check box next to 'Random' is checked, the entry in the field will be ignored and a word will be chosen at random from the word list. Once 'Generate' is clicked, the message will be created by looking at the seed word and using the probability matrix to make a random choice of all the words in the list weighted by the probability that they would appear after said word. That process is then repeated for each new word until the desired length is reached and the message is displayed below the help and quit buttons.

If saving the library is desired, this can be accomplished by entering a file name in the field labeled 'Library name (to save)' next to the 'Save' button and clicking 'Save'. This will create a .pkl file that can be loaded later. Recall that this will often take longer than reading in a new work. Once the save is complete, a note will be added to the upper right-hand corner of the window saying so.

It isn't fast, it isn't clean, it isn't pretty, but it IS my Llama Cat, whatever that means.

If you have any questions or comments, please don't hesitate to send me an email at imasillypirate@gmail.com or reach out to me on twitter (@imasillypirate) or through my blog(imasillypirate.wordpress.com).
